thumb|150px|God, as illustrated by the Guide.
God is referred to several times in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. He is responsible for the creation of the universe, but little else is stated about him and his actions. In other situations it states that there are several gods.

Extract from Oolon Colluphid's Books:

The story so far. In the beginning the universe was created. This made a lot of people very unhappy and has widely been regarded as a bad move.Final Proof of the Non-Existence of God
thumb|God, creating the Universe, as illustrated by the Guide.
The Final Proof of the non-Existence of God was proved by a Babel Fish.

Now, it is such a bizarrely improbable coincidence that anything so mind-bogglingly useful could have evolved purely by chance that some have chosen to see it as the final proof of the NON-existence of God. The argument goes something like this: 

"I refuse to prove that I exist," says God, "for proof denies faith, and without faith I am nothing."

"But," says Man, "the Babel fish is a dead giveaway, isn't it? It could not have evolved by chance. It proves that You exist, and so therefore, by Your own arguments, You don't. QED."

"Oh dear," says God, "I hadn't thought of that," and promptly vanishes in a puff of logic.

"Oh, that was easy," says Man, and for an encore goes on to prove that black is white and gets himself killed on the next zebra crossing.Oolon Colluphid
Oolon Colluphid wrote many books on God:
Where God Went Wrong.
Some More of God's Greatest Mistakes.
Who is this God Person Anyway?
Well, That About Wraps It Up For GodMore Than One God?
It is, however, not possible to understand this without the educational level of advanced god. However, since they are too busy trying to explain how it is that they came into existence six minutes after the universe was created rather than, as they had always claimed, two weeks before, none are available for comment at this time.God's Final Message
After discovering that the people of the Universe were rather unhappy with their Universe, God set out to make sure they understood He hadn't purposefully tried to screw with them. And so He wrote the following message on a mountain for anybody within range to see. The message went as follows:

WE APOLOGISE FOR THE INCONVENIENCE.

The message eventually became a tourist attraction.
Category:Deities
Category:Characters
Category:Minor characters