Douglas Noel Adams (often referred to as "DNA" by fans) was an English author, comic radio dramatist, and musician. He was the creator of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, writing the original radio series, which were adapted for TV in 1981, and the first five novels.

He wrote for radio, television, and theater, and worked at various times as a hospital porter, barn builder, chicken-shed cleaner, bodyguard, and radio producer. He was also a script editor of the notorious Doctor Who series. Adams was known for his height — he was six foot five, about the same height as John Cleese, with whom he worked on-screen in Monty Python.

Toward the end of his life, he was a sought-after lecturer on topics including technology and the environment. Legacy 
Since his death at the tragically early age of 49 in 2001, he is still widely revered in science fiction and fantasy fandom circles.

thumb|300px|One of the late Douglas Adams's famous quotes.
On May 25th, two weeks after his untimely death, Towel Day was created in his honour. In order to join in with this event, all you need to do is carry a towel and love Douglas Adams. Television 
thumb|A young Douglas Adams.
As one of the drinkers in the background of the pub.
 Episode 1
As the businessman who withdraws large sums of money from a bank,and then walks naked into the sea (the original actor for the part either called in sick, or was moving house that day); and one of the Sirius Cybernetic Marketing Division members.
 Episode 2
As himself in a guide entry on "an important and popular fact".
 Episode 3
He also appeared as himself in the Making of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy documentary. Radio 
As Agrajag

 Tertiary Phase 
 Fit the Fifteenth
 Fit the Sixteenth

 Quintessential Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Sixth Tertiary Phase 
 Fit the Fifteenth
 Fit the Sixteenth Quintessential Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Sixth Movie 
 Right at the end, when the Heart of Gold's Infinite Improbability Drive kicks in, the last thing you see before the credits roll is Adams's head. External links 
 Douglas Adams on Wikipedia
 Douglas Adams on IMDb
 Douglas Adams biography on the BBC website (archived)
 Douglas Adams author profile on Goodreads

Category:Authors
Category:Real world people