Damogran is a planet that is approximately 2,500 light years from Earth on the fashionable Eastern Side of the Galaxy. Due to being deserted it was the chosen location for the secretive construction of the Heart of Gold, and where Zaphod Beeblebrox arrived to reveal and subsequently steal the starship. Description 

 In the book 
As well as being described as hot, remote and almost entirely unheard of, Damogran was an extremely inconveniently arranged planet. It consisted of nothing but middling to large desert islands separated by very pretty but annoyingly wide stretches of ocean. This made the use of an ion drive delta boat a practical necessity.

There was a spaceport on Easter Island. Its name was pure meaningless coincidence, as "easter" simply meant "small, flat and light-brown" in Galacticspeke. The Heart of Gold was located on the Island of France, whose name is another such unintended, insignificant coincidence. France was about 20 miles long, 5 miles across at the middle, sandy and crescent-shaped. It was more a means of defining the sweep and curve of a huge bay than as an island in its own right. Its inner coastline consists mostly of steep cliffs, and from the top of them, the land sloped slowly down 5 miles to the opposite shore. These two islands are part of the only archipelago of any useful size on the whole planet.

 In the film 
Damogran was also mentioned in the film, for the same part of the plot as in the book, albeit in less detail. It appears in a similar way to how it was described in the book, with deep blue seas and oddly shaped areas of land with rocks jutting out from them.  In the book 
As well as being described as hot, remote and almost entirely unheard of, Damogran was an extremely inconveniently arranged planet. It consisted of nothing but middling to large desert islands separated by very pretty but annoyingly wide stretches of ocean. This made the use of an ion drive delta boat a practical necessity.

There was a spaceport on Easter Island. Its name was pure meaningless coincidence, as "easter" simply meant "small, flat and light-brown" in Galacticspeke. The Heart of Gold was located on the Island of France, whose name is another such unintended, insignificant coincidence. France was about 20 miles long, 5 miles across at the middle, sandy and crescent-shaped. It was more a means of defining the sweep and curve of a huge bay than as an island in its own right. Its inner coastline consists mostly of steep cliffs, and from the top of them, the land sloped slowly down 5 miles to the opposite shore. These two islands are part of the only archipelago of any useful size on the whole planet. In the film 
Damogran was also mentioned in the film, for the same part of the plot as in the book, albeit in less detail. It appears in a similar way to how it was described in the book, with deep blue seas and oddly shaped areas of land with rocks jutting out from them.  Life on Damogran 
Damogran was home to the Damogran Frond Crested Eagle, which was known to make nests largely out of papier-mâché, from which it was virtually impossible for any of the hatchlings to break out. Like many species throughout the Galaxy, the Damogran Frond Crested Eagle had heard of the notion of survival of the species but wanted no truck with it.

Damogran was also home to the Damogranian pom-pom squid, an animal highly skilled in massage.From the introduction to the book And Another Thing...