The Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal is a vicious wild animal from the planet of Traal, known for its never-ending hunger and its mind-boggling stupidity. One of the main features of the Beast is that if you can't see it, it assumes it can't see you. Due to this it has been considered one of the least intelligent creatures in the Universe.

The Vogons "wouldn't even lift a finger" to save their own grandmothers from the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal. The best way to irritate a Vogon is "to feed his grandmother" to this creature. 

At the end of the Primary Phase of the radio series, Arthur Dent, Ford Prefect, Trillian, Zaphod Beeblebrox and Marvin encounter a shape-shifting Haggunenon in a "carbon copy" form of a Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal. Arthur and Ford hastily escape from the creature, and we later find out that Trillian, Zaphod and Marvin escaped when the Haggunenon shape-shifted into an escape capsule.

In the film the Vogons keep a Bugblatter Beast inside a metal box in order to execute people convicted of crimes such as kidnapping the President of the Galaxy. Trillian is almost fed to it.From the 2005 film Physical appearance 
The Bugblatter Beast of Traal can turn its eyes red, green, and a sort of mauve pinkAccording to the radio scripts, and it is said to have a cranial spigotFrom chapter 3 of the book And Another Thing.... It asks its victims their names before killing them and carves the names on a memorial outside its caveAccording to the Hitchhiker's computer game. 

The Beast is described (by those who have seen it and lived) as having "Lazero-Zap" eyes, "Swivel Shear teeth", several dozen tungsten-carbide "Vast-Pain claws", skin like a motorway, and breath like a 747 jet.Books
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (mentioned only)
And Another Thing...
Star Trek Comic Book - In Memory of the WorthyRadio
Primary Phase
Fit the First
Fit the Sixth
Secondary Phase
Fit the Seventh (mentioned only)Primary Phase
Fit the First
Fit the SixthSecondary Phase
Fit the Seventh (mentioned only)TV series
Episode 1 (mentioned only)Films
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. The Bugblatter Beast appears to have been transported to Vogsphere and is used as a means of execution by the Vogons.Video games
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Successfully escaping the Bugblatter Beast is one of the subgames created by the Infinite Improbability Drive. Simply covering your eyes (with a Towel) causes the Beast to believe it cannot see you, but it is aware that people do not just disappear and continues searching with its other senses, so this alone will not work. It is necessary to also carve your name on the Bugblatter's memorial, which will cause it to believe that it can't see you because it already ate you and forgot about it.

Star Trek Comic Book - In Memory of the Worthy